# Homework 4 | ECE 509

## Questions

### Investigate two techniques to find buffer overflows.
- Since many buffer overflow attacks mainly target web servers, a good way to find a buffer overflow is to run the server code on your local machine. This will let you take the time to run possible malformed web requests. If any of the requests crash the server then you can check the core dump for more details on how the buffer overflow was executed.


### Describe and provide an example of two hijacking attacks.
- Integer Overflow Attacks
	- This attack happens when the value of a data type (int) exceeds the value that is possible for that data type.
	- In the following example, if you were to add `len1 = 0x80` and `len2 = 0xffffff80`, the resulting number would be `0`. And as such, the line provided below would not exit the function. (Thus leaving an open attack vector).
```c
if (len1 + len2 > 256) {return -1;}
```

- Format String Vulnerabilities
	- This attack relies on the way that the `C` language processes functions like `printf`. When using the `%s` format string, the function is provided an address and `printf` will keep printing characters until the pointer has reached a null character. In combination with the `%x` format string, it is possible to force the pointer to go to an arbitrary address and view the contents inside of that address.
	- In the code given below, the user may enter an arbitrary string, such as `\x10\x01\x48\x08 %x %x %x %x %s` which, if `printf` can be forced to print, will allow moving of the pointer in the stack to print out contents of other memory locations.

```c
int main()
{
	char user_input[100];
	...
	...
	...
	scanf("%s", user_input);
	printf(user_input);
}
```


### What is the difference between Access Control List and Capability? Give an example of when each can be selected as the best.

Both Access Control Lists and Capbilities are security principles that are applied to the access that a program or user has to run processes on the system that they are trying to control.
- Access Control Lists
	- The system checks if the current user is within the ACL to see if they are allowed to execute a command. This is useful for when large amounts of users need to access certain commands on a server. For example, installing packages on a system, or accessing hardware resources
- Capability
	- Capabilities are permissions given to a process that then has the ability to pass the capabilities it possesses to other processes. A good use case for this is when one program wants to execute commands that another program completes. For example, executing a computation on heterogeneous hardware. (CPU to the GPU on a server) 


### Design a system for a digital library applying secure architecture principles: isolation, least privilege, and access control.

A service archives many pieces of documentation. Some documents are open for all people who use the service to read and are publicly available while other documents are confidential to companies that are contracted by the government to conduct research. 

The principle of isolation would be to store each of the document types on separate servers. Public docs on one set of servers and confidential documents on their own set of servers. Isolation could reach as many levels as desired, by company, or by topic/sector.

The principle of least privilege would be applied by allowing the public to access public documents. Project leaders for certain projects would only have access to the documents for the projects that they work on. Or companies only have access to their documents. Since the government contracts all of the companies, they could have access to all of the documents that are generated because of their funding. Ultimately, no one actor has access to more documents than needed.

The principle of access control would be provided by the system admin. access to a document type could be given by creating groups for users (or user accounts) that have privileges of sub groups. In addition, another layer of least protection could incorporate the use of Capability (similar to the last problem) for each of the documents that are generated by projects and sub projects and teams on each project. 



### Perform intelligence gathering on a big company, for example, Amazon, Microsoft, or Apple. 
Use the OSINT framework to gather public information, found at https://osintframework.com/. Use the following resources found in 

Domain Name > Whois Records and Analytics:
- DomainTools 
- Whois
- Website Informer
- BuiltWith
- SecurityHeaders.io
- ClearWebStats 

Select five more resources, and create a report with all the information you gathered, in this report, you should include how this information can be used to exploit vulnerabilities in the company.

